# C01-S01: Derivatives Management System

S1 is a Microservice-based system from the banking domain for the management and search of derivatives. C1, a small financial services company, offers it as Software as a Service (SaaS) and hosts it in the public cloud (AWS EC2). To increase maintainability, it was migrated from a monolithic PHP application and now comprises nine services mostly written in Java using Spring Boot. Several smaller services group around one coarse-grained core service. Services use RESTful HTTP for synchronous and AMQP messaging via RabbitMQ for asynchronous communication. MongoDB was chosen for fast and flexible queries, although this was not the case for large amounts of data in the old monolith. After the rewrite of the query service, query performance drastically improved. Each service is deployed as a JAR file. Although the current deployment automation via Ansible is seen as comfortable and brings portability, it is planned to migrate to Docker containers and potentially Kubernetes in the future for increased operability. Developer P1 described service discovery in the system initially as difficult, which was improved by switching from fixed addresses in configuration files to dynamic service discovery via Eureka. The system has most Microservices characteristics except for only a basic degree of automation without continuous deployment and a small degree of technological heterogeneity. Even though there is a low degree of governance, the decentralization criterion is not really applicable due to the small system and company.