# C02-S04: Public Transport Sales System

The last discussed system from C2 is an omnichannel sales system for public transport tickets. An existing complex of monolithic applications is currently being rewritten into ~100 Microservices structured in 15 domains. Main drivers for the modernization were compatibility and harmonization, i.e. the need to unify distribution channels. The very large project involves over 300 people from several contractors that are organized in ~30 teams with a decent degree of autonomy for their inner architecture. There is, however, a central architecture team that provides meta guidelines and cross-cutting concerns like Docker images, authentication, or logging. Service granularity is very different, because teams and contractors tend to cut very differently. The architecture team tries to harmonize this via frequent cutting and merging of services. Synchronous service communication is achieved via RESTful HTTP. For long-running processes and integration with other systems, messaging is used (Kafka or AmazonMQ). The possibility to apply demand-based security mechanisms to each service helped to achieve conformance with the General Data Protection Regulation. Technological heterogeneity is rather low. Most services are written in Java using Spring Boot. Some services responsible for frontend communication (*backends for frontends* pattern) are written in Node.js to facilitate an easy move for frontend developers to the backend. Architect P4 remained skeptical about the future handover to the reduced workforce responsible for maintenance and continuous product development, if the central architecture team is not able to harmonize service granularity and technology usage.