# C02-S03: Automotive Problem Management System

The second system from C2 is an automotive management system for the categorization and analysis of problems. To increase maintainability, the existing monolith is replaced and extended piece by piece. The new system currently consists of 10 dockerized Java services. Since the monolith is too complex and important to be replaced at once, the two systems are operated concurrently. LogStash is used as an ETL tool for data synchronization and additional functionality is added as new Microservices (strangler pattern). Some of these are rather coarse-grained, because the domain proved difficult to cut. First cuts were rather technical, but this was later adjusted to a more functional and domain-oriented approach. To increase query performance, Elasticsearch was used. Service communication primarily relies on RESTful HTTP. Recently, some teams started to introduce messaging via Kafka, which was initially delayed because the customers' OpenShift private cloud was seen as somewhat unstable. Even though the system has a low degree of technological heterogeneity, mastering the new service technology was reported as challenging, also because customer as well as development team were more used to the "old" monolithic Java world. The homogeneous services are seen as easy to reuse, analyze and adapt. The system also has some project characteristics (built for external customer who operates the system), a medium degree of central governance, and several restrictions from the customer, e.g. prohibition of refactorings due to costs or strict rules for Docker images and application servers.