# C02-S02: Freeway Toll Management System

The first of the three systems (all for external customers) developed by C2, a large global software and consulting enterprise, is a management and payment system for freeway tolls. The initial decentralized solution was replaced by a Microservice-based system with extended functionality as a central sink for vehicle communication. As the transmitted amount of sensitive data has increased, the system has to comply with high security standards. It consists of 10 Java services. One important algorithm in C++ was reused from the legacy system, but proved difficult to integrate. Architect P2 reported this to be a driver for complexity that negatively affected maintainability. The system is deployed in Docker containers in a private cloud based on OpenShift. Since performance is also a major non-functional requirement, three core services larger than the rest (sometimes referred to as "Self-Contained Systems" by P2) form the central sequential pipeline of the application. They are decoupled via message queues using Oracle Advanced Queuing which was chosen because Oracle databases were used for persistence. While the system fulfills several popular Microservices characteristics, it has a project character (built for an external customer, very large workforce for initial development), a high degree of central governance with technology guidelines, a large amount of upfront architecture, a separation between dev and ops team, as well as a low degree of technological heterogeneity.