# C03-S05: Business Analytics & Data Integration System

The small software and consulting company C3 develops a business analytics system for big data that is focused on information retrieval, data integration, and data analysis using e.g. data mining or linguistic algorithms. We interviewed architect P5 and lead developer P6 who spoke very similarly about S5, except for some minor differences (e.g. service granularity and complexity). For the central backend, six Microservices have been developed in a complete greenfield approach. The influence on software quality was mainly perceived as positive, in particular maintainability and portability. Except for one Scala service, all Microservices are written in Java using Spring Boot. Services communicate via Kafka topics. Alternatively, RESTful HTTP is used sporadically, which both P5 and P6 see as subpar. They like to restrict the use of REST to data insertion via agents and frontend communication. Inter-service communication should be achieved in a decoupled way via Kafka messaging. While the general degree of heterogeneity is rather low, they do use three different databases. On top of Elasticsearch for fast queries, they also rely on PostgreSQL and Cassandra for importing various data formats. Docker is used to allow easy on-premise deployments for customers (because of sensitive data) as well as internal SaaS hosting. Currently, Docker Compose is used for orchestration, but will be replaced by Kubernetes to allow for convenient scaling. Building the necessary expertise with new technology was described as a challenge. P5 mentioned that Kafka was also chosen because it is en vogue and its focus on very small messages would not optimally fit their use case. While there is some alignment with the 12-factor app principles, the degree of automation is rather low. However, a CI/CD pipeline is currently implemented to decrease cycle time and to increase software quality.