# C04-S06: Automotive Configuration Management System

The medium software services company C4 is in the process of rewriting a very large monolithic configuration and maintenance data management system for an automotive customer. Even though architect P7 wanted to avoid too fine-grained services, there are already 60 of them that are organized in domains. Moreover, these are read-only services that rely on data replication from the legacy system running in parallel. To slowly build trust in the new Microservices, writing functionality is reserved for a later point in time. One of the most important non-functional aspects was scalability. Kubernetes is used to achieve this flexible scaling. Reliability, portability, as well as maintainability (the second main driver for the migration) are positively perceived. Most services are developed in Java using Spring Boot or WildFly as an application server. Since the customer wanted to migrate parts of the monolith without major changes, WebSphere Liberty had to be used as well. Even though there is a strong Java focus, S6 inhibits a medium degree of diversity, due to different middlewares, means of communication (RESTful HTTP, Kafka, MQTT, JMS), or frontend technology (Angular and React). The development has a decent product character despite being done for an external customer. The development team also operates the system and so far no complete handover is planned. A high degree of automation is used (GitLab CI), although continuous deployment will be implemented at a later stage. Teams have a medium amount of autonomy. However, there is also central governance and consultation, e.g. concerning the placing of new functionality or the usage of extravagant technology. Moreover, the customer wants to be closely involved and emphasizes his power to override decisions.