# C04-S07: Retail Online Shop

The second system developed by C4 is an online shop for a large retailer. This newly developed eCommerce platform replaces an existing commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) product and also provides additional functionality. Architect P8 reported that service granularity was very fine-grained. So far, the nearly 200 involved people have created ~250 services that are structured into domains and products. Most of these are written in Java based on Spring Boot, but there are also instances of Node.js, Go, and Kotlin, which leads to a medium degree of heterogeneity. Furthermore, several relational and NoSQL databases are used. The default communication mechanism is RESTful HTTP with JSON, but sometimes OData is used. To integrate legacy systems, some outgoing calls rely on SOAP. Currently, most deployment artifacts are JAR or WAR files, but the move to Docker containers is ongoing. A dedicated DevOps team implemented CI/CD pipelines for build and test automation. Later on, this team was dissolved and integrated into existing development teams. However, operations is handled by the customer using a multi-cloud strategy with parts on-premise and parts distributed over Pivotal, AWS, and Google. The development of S7 has a minor project character, even though the developers continue to support their services after the move to production. Teams have a medium amount of autonomy and the agile principle of *individuals and interactions over processes and tools* is generally followed. There is, however, central governance and consultation for macro architecture, security, or quality assurance. Modifiability and analyzability are perceived to be better in the new architecture. But without container orchestration, scaling and monitoring were reported as difficult and with potential impact on reliability.