# C05-S08: IT Service Monitoring Platform

The global IT services provider C5 develops a monitoring solution with an operations dashboard to visualize the status and availability of IT infrastructure and services. The solution is offered to internal colleagues as well as external customers as SaaS. Lead developer P9 described the initial architecture as a RESTful monolith with a single page application (SPA) AngularJS frontend. By now, the application is in the process of a migration towards a more fine-grained service architecture orchestrated with Kubernetes. The use of containerization and orchestration greatly improved scalability and reliability. However, the preparation for Kubernetes and implementation of most 12-factor app guidelines was seen as difficult by P9. So far, nine services have been created while the central API is still the largest of these. Most services are written in Java using different parts of the Spring framework with sporadic use of Groovy and Akka. A new larger service has been written in Node.js, which enables frontend developers to potentially switch to the backend and facilitates code sharing between a frontend and the corresponding service. Initially, communication in the system was exclusively based on RESTful HTTP. To introduce reliable data exchange and asynchronous publish/subscribe, AMQP messaging via RabbitMQ has been introduced. Since there are also four different databases used to satisfy different requirements (Elasticsearch, MariaDB, OrientDB, Redis), there is a medium degree of technological diversity in the system. Jenkins is used for CI/CD pipelines, but production deployments still involve manual work. During the migration, there are separate dev, ops, and DevOps teams that are in close collaboration. To relieve developers from additional work, a separate support team is currently formed.