# C06-S09: Hotel Search Engine

Developer P10 and data engineer P11 from the tourism company C6 both talked with us about their primary product S9, an online search platform for hotels. The monolithic application core has been rewritten by a small team and now comprises six Java services that run as Docker containers in the public cloud (Google Kubernetes Engine). Operations is done by the development team. Historically, a lot of PHP was used within C6, but it has been replaced by Java wherever threading and state were necessary. The six new Microservices also have to communicate with PHP middleware and frontends and there are several tools that facilitate this communication, e.g. via Unix domain sockets. To guarantee low response times and fluent end-user interactions while waiting for search results, gRPC streaming was used for service communication. Getting production-ready with gRPC was described as painful by P10, but the decision was still seen as the right one in retrospect. Additionally, Kafka is used for event sourcing to supply state to each service at start-up. This is achieved via MySQL data replication by reading the binary log. This stream processing architecture drastically reduced load in the system. Moreover, a large number of Redis caches increases read performance. Teams at C6 have a high degree of autonomy and choose their own technologies and development model. The minimum degree of central governance is focused on a common IT strategy. Data engineer P11 was skeptical about this degree of decentralization and perceived inter-team collaboration as well as high-level organizational alignment as sub-optimal. Furthermore, P11 did not see a necessity for the Microservices migration, described it as politically rather than technically motivated, and regarded the new service cut as inefficient. He also believed that the elimination of the single monolithic code base decreased maintainability. Developer P10, on the other hand, mentioned that the new Microservice-based system had much better scalability, maintainability, as well as operability.