# C06-S10: Hotel Management Suite

The second system from C6 was a management suite for hoteliers or small hotel chains with several modular products. The suite followed the Self-Contained System (SCS) paradigm and was developed as 20 coarse-grained services that were vertically cut and included their own UI. While this follows a functional or feature-oriented decomposition, Domain-Driven Design (DDD) was not used due to its perceived complexity. PHP was the primary language for S10 with two services being written in Java. Architect P12 saw Java as unfit to be used in a polyglot environment, since it would pose integration difficulties and development overheads. He advocated to either use Java exclusively in a Microservice-based system or not at all. RESTful HTTP is the basis for communication, but for some services Google Pub/Sub is used. To avoid low performance due to several service requests in the SPA frontend, a GraphQL middleware has been introduced (*backends for frontends* pattern). While P12 in principle saw team autonomy at C6 as positive, he also made negative experiences with teams choosing technologies just for the sake of being new or "hip" without thinking too much about the underlying problems to solve. He described large parts of his job being filled with constructing arguments to convince teams to be a bit more sensible and simplistic in their technological and architectural decisions. While a basic build pipeline for producing a final Docker image was in place, not many additional DevOps practices were used. P12 pointed out that it was very complex to reach a convenient level of reliability with Microservices. Improved maintainability was seen as the biggest advantage over the old monolith.