# C07-S11: Public Transport Management Suite

C7 develops a product suite for managing the whole process of public transportation (S11). DevOps engineer P14 described the ongoing modernization and transformation of the whole product suite while architect P13 specifically talked with us about the human resource management product from this suite (S11a). The nearly 30 years old product ecosystem consists of a heterogeneous mix of legacy and modern technology and comprises 10 different products, each with 10 to 20 subcomponents. Large parts of the system are developed with Java EE technology, but there are also a lot of decentralized embedded components in C++. Various deployment artifacts (JAR, WAR, EAR, some Docker containers) and communication mechanisms (RPC/RMI, RESTful HTTP, SOAP, file transfer) are used. Current modernization efforts by central architecture and DevOps teams aim to standardize deployment processes with automated pipelines and to migrate several products to a more fine-grained and service-oriented architecture. This is supposed to improve testing, operability, and maintainability. DevOps engineer P14 described the usage of Docker within S11 as complicated, because several legacy components would not be ready for it. Moreover, most external customers that operate the application themselves were used to Windows VMs and would not have the necessary competence for Docker. While the nature of Microservices is desirable for several of S11's products, architect P13 did not see it as a goal for the human resource management product (S11a). While described as "service-oriented", the Java EE deployment monolith that uses RPC/RMI for communicating with Java fat clients does not really hold up to most characteristics of service-based systems (e.g. platform-agnostic interfaces, standardized data exchange formats, loose coupling, or location transparency). The application is deployed as one EAR file that consists of 20 to 25 JARs, each containing several functionally aligned "services" (in total ~300). This architecture has been used for eight years and P13 saw no major issues that would warrant a Microservices migration, since e.g. scalability is not an issue. However, 50% of development efforts are required for refactoring and modernization, cycle time and deployment process are reported as suboptimal, and several used technologies are consciously perceived as outdated. These are all issues that usually improve with Microservices. Since these benefits may still not be worth the substantial migration efforts, S11a is a good example that Microservices are not a silver bullet solution.