# C08-S12: Retail Online Shop

To improve time to market, retailer C8 replaced a COTS online shop (SAP Hybris) with a custom eCommerce platform developed in-house as Microservices. Compared to the previously used platform, reliability aspects have improved drastically. According to P15, the risk of a system outage due to a failing component is almost zero. A user might at most experience that parts of functionality are missing temporarily. The omnichannel online shop consists of ~45 services organized in five domains with several subdomains or "verticals". The decomposition relied on DDD and techniques like event storming. There is a high degree of decentralization and technological heterogeneity. The autonomous teams choose their own languages and technologies. While a lot of Java and Spring is used, there are also services in Scala, Node.js, Go, Swift, or Kotlin, as well as various databases (e.g. MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, Redis). While there is RESTful HTTP communication in the system, data exchange between services relies on data replication to guarantee independence. Kafka messaging is used a lot for service communication within verticals or domains, but is prohibited for cross-domain communication to avoid coupling. A very high degree of automation with continuous deployment pipelines ensures that every accepted commit goes live without manual efforts. Services are deployed as Docker containers to AWS and orchestrated with Kubernetes. Terraform is used for infrastructure automation on AWS. Developers operate the services themselves and even have on-call duty. Architects like P15 perform basic central governance for strategy, modernization, or macroarchitecture, but see themselves more as coaches or consultants. Horizontal knowledge exchange between teams is facilitated via thematic guilds, e.g. for security.