# C09-S13: Automotive End-User Services Management System

Software and IT services company C9 migrated an existing system of an external automotive customer to a more cloud-native and Microservice-based architecture. The system is used for the management and payment of end-user services in the car. Architect P16 described it as too risky to additionally break-up the monolith during the cloud-native migration. So the monolith was moved from traditional WebSphere to Liberty running within a Docker container while service cutting was postponed. Moreover, new small services with additional functionality were added around the monolith (*strangler* pattern). Currently, there are seven services (including the old monolith). For these, Java is the exclusive language while the frontend is written in Angular. Even though Spring would have been preferred by C9, the potential benefits were perceived as insufficient, so Java EE was kept to avoid risk and additional efforts. During the migration, SOAP and JMS were removed as communication mechanisms. RESTful HTTP and AMQP were introduced as the standard protocols. Since the application is hosted in several environments and needs to interact with other systems, a REST adapter for AMQP was introduced (*request-reaction* pattern, referred to as "async REST"). Even though heterogeneity within S13 is low, learning and mastering new technology was still seen as cumbersome. Teams were organized in cross-functional squads following the Spotify model, but their autonomy was limited to a very basic level. Central governance and the customer prescribed most decisions. A medium degree of automation was used together with Jenkins pipelines and there was some alignment with 12-factor app principles. However, the customer who operated the system was not ready for continuous deployment yet. Furthermore, the customer initiated several technological and infrastructure-related changes that were politically motivated, e.g. a move from Cloud Foundry to Kubernetes or switching between public cloud providers. Operability and portability of the new system are perceived as much improved.