# C10-S14: Retail Online Shop

Similar to the other two online shops (S7, S12), retailer C10 replaced their COTS solution (Intershop Enfinity) with a custom online shop that was initially based on Self-Contained Systems (SCS) with a strong Java focus. Over the years, the architecture evolved more and more towards Microservices and introduced a lot of different technologies (e.g. MongoDB, DynamoDB, Elasticsearch, Cassandra, Redis) and programming languages (e.g. Scala, Clojure, Node.js, Groovy, Ruby, Python, Swift). RESTful HTTP is the default communication protocol, but there are also Kafka or Amazon SQS. More recently, the complete system was migrated to the AWS public cloud, even though Amazon is a competitor of C10. However, the platform and services would be a perfect fit for their use case. Scalability of the system is one of the main benefits and response times are very competitive. Architect P17 described reliability as similarly positive. Teams have complete autonomy over their inner architecture and also employ various AWS offerings to host their services (e.g. Docker container, JAR, WAR, ElasticBeanstalk, Fargate, Lambda functions). P17 perceived this high degree of decentralization and heterogeneity as overall beneficial, even though he acknowledged associated risks. The best solution would be to empower teams while making them simultaneously responsible for their actions. This is achieved by a very high degree of automation with continuous deployment and AWS CloudFormation templates in combination with a strong DevOps mindset (*you build it, you run it*). Moreover, small services are seen as easy to replace, which would be beneficial for long-term sustainability. Central governance is kept to a bare minimum and involves IT strategy (AWS public cloud) and some general architectural guidelines (e.g. RESTful HTTP or data autonomy). Not even the exact number of services (150-200) is documented in this very large decentralized ecosystem that is currently extended with marketplace functionality for external sellers. Having a project-focused past, P17 described C10's journey to create the continuous product engineering mindset necessary to succeed with such an architecture as difficult.